Study Abroad and Global Programs
================================

Santa Clara University provides students with opportunities to participate in a range of global study programs including: semester or quarter-length study abroad; Global Explorations short-term faculty-led programs; the Global Engagement Innovation Fellowship; the Global Engagement Community Engagement Fellowship; Global Internships; UK Summer Fulbright and Virtual Programs. Programs are available during four terms: summer, fall, winter, and spring.

Semester and quarter-length study abroad programs during the fall, winter, and spring may be highly competitive and not all qualified applicants may be approved. Studying abroad during the summer is not competitive. Students may study abroad during the summer following their first, sophomore, or junior year. Students studying abroad during the fall, winter, or spring may do so once during their junior or senior year. Length of study abroad programs vary including short-term over the summer, fall quarter, fall semester, winter quarter, spring quarter, and spring semester. Courses completed in approved study abroad programs count toward credit requirements for graduation and may fulfill major, minor, and Core requirements with approval from the department or the Core director. Students from diverse backgrounds and first-generation students are strongly encouraged to apply to global programs and study abroad. The study abroad team in Global Engagement provides advising on programs and scholarships. For more information on Santa Clara's Study Abroad and Global Programs, see Chapter 6 of this Bulletin.
