Preface
=======

The *Undergraduate Bulletin* contains the academic and administrative policies and regulations that govern enrollment of undergraduate students at Santa Clara University. Students are responsible for knowing all academic and administrative policies and regulations affecting their program of study and for abiding by all such policies and regulations during their period of enrollment at the University. Continued enrollment is subject to compliance with the academic and administrative policies and regulations as described herein and otherwise published by the University. Failure to understand the policies and regulations does not relieve a student of his or her responsibility for adhering to the policies and regulations.

Students are governed by the applicable degree requirements of the University and the Santa Clara Core Curriculum in the *Undergraduate Bulletin* in effect in their entry year as first-year students. Transfer students normally follow the *Undergraduate Bulletin* of their class cohort as determined by the number of transfer units accepted toward the Santa Clara degree upon admission. All students must fulfill the departmental or program major and minor degree requirements in effect when they declare their major or minor program of study.

Santa Clara University reserves the right to make changes to degree program requirements, academic and administrative policies and regulations, and course offerings published in the *Undergraduate Bulletin* at any time without prior notice. The University strives to assure the accuracy of the information in the *Undergraduate Bulletin* at the time of publication. However, the University reserves the right to make corrections as necessary to the Bulletin.

The *2022-23 Undergraduate Bulletin* was published in June 2022 by the Office of the Provost and covers policies and regulations in effect as of that date. The *Undergraduate Bulletin* and other information about Santa Clara University can be found on the [**University's website**](https://scu.edu).
