Academic Programs
=================

**Undergraduate Programs**

Santa Clara University offers undergraduate degrees leading to bachelor of arts (B.A.), bachelor of science (B.S.), and bachelor of science in commerce (B.S.C.) degrees. The College of Arts and Sciences offers the B.A. degree and the B.S. degree in 33 subject areas and includes the graduate program in pastoral ministries, through which it offers the master of arts (M.A.) degree in catechetics, pastoral liturgy, spirituality, and liturgical music. The Leavey School of Business offers the B.S. degree in commerce with majors in eight subject areas. The School of Engineering offers a B.S. degree with majors in eight subject areas. A variety of interdisciplinary and discipline-based minors are also offered for undergraduates.

**Graduate Programs**

The School of Law offers programs leading to the degrees of Juris Doctor (J.D.) and master of laws (LL.M.). A broad curriculum also includes business and commercial law, taxation, criminal law and trial advocacy, environmental law, estate planning, labor law, health law, legal writing and research, as well as opportunities for externships, clinical work, and professional skill development. J.D. students may earn certificates of specialization in high technology law, international law, and public interest and social justice law. LL.M. students may earn master of laws degrees in intellectual property or U.S. law.

The Leavey School of Business offers graduate programs leading to the master of business administration (MBA) degree with coursework in accounting, economics, finance, management, marketing, and operations management and information systems (OMIS). The MBA can be done part-time on campus and online. The business school also offers graduate programs leading to the master of science in information systems, business analytics, marketing, or finance & analytics. A 4+1 degree program aimed at seniors is available for the MS programs in information systems, business analytics, and finance & analytics. In conjunction with the law school, the business school also offers joint degree programs leading to a J.D./MBA and J.D./MSIS.

The School of Engineering offers graduate programs leading to the master of science (M.S.) degree in applied mathematics; bioengineering; civil, environmental, and sustainable engineering; computer science and engineering; electrical engineering; engineering management; mechanical engineering; software engineering; and sustainable energy; and the engineer's degree in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering. The engineering school also offers the doctor of philosophy (Ph.D.) degree in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering.

The two departments in the School of Education and Counseling Psychology offer credential, licensure, and graduate programs.

The Department of Education prepares teachers and leaders for public, private and Catholic schools. It offers programs in teacher preparation leading to credentials (e.g., California preliminary multiple-subject and single-subject teaching credentials), bilingual authorization, and the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) degree. Its programs in educational leadership prepare public K--12 leaders for credentials (e.g., Preliminary California Administrative Services credential, California Clear Administrative Services credential) with an opportunity to also receive an MA degree in Educational leadership. The Educational leadership program also offers a Doctor of Education (EdD) in Social Justice Leadership degree with specializations in Higher Education Leadership, PreK-12 Leadership, and Social Impact Leadership.

The Department of Counseling Psychology offers three degree programs: MA in Counseling Psychology, MA in Counseling, and an MA in Applied Psychology. The MA in Counseling Psychology can lead to state licensure for Marriage and Family Therapists (MFT) or Licensed Professional Clinical Counselors (LPCC). The MA in Counseling is for students that wish to pursue work in which they will use counseling skills in non-mental health settings. The MA in Applied Psychology is designed for students who wish to pursue a variety of human service fields or as preparation in applying for graduate level PhD work in any branch of psychology. Emphasis for all three degree programs include Latino Counseling, LGBTQ Counseling, Health Psychology, and Correctional Psychology.

The Jesuit School of Theology (JST) is one of only two Jesuit theological centers in the United States operated by the Society of Jesus, as the order of Catholic priests is known. It is one of only two Jesuit theological centers in the country that offer three ecclesiastical degrees certified by the Vatican Congregation for Catholic Education, and it also offers four advanced theological degrees certified by the Association of Theological Schools. In addition, JST offers a spiritual renewal program for clergy, religious, and lay people, and conducts an annual Instituto Hispano that offers a certificate program to advance Hispanic leadership in the pastoral life of the church.
