Academic Programs
=================

Santa Clara University offers undergraduate degrees leading to the bachelor of arts (B.A.), bachelor of science (B.S.), and bachelor of science in commerce. The College of Arts and Sciences offers the B.A. degree and the B.S. degree in 33 subject areas and includes the graduate program in pastoral ministries, through which it offers the master of arts (M.A.) degree in catechetics, pastoral liturgy, spirituality, and liturgical music. The Leavey School of Business offers the B.S. degree in commerce with majors in subject areas. The School of Engineering offers a B.S. degree with majors in seven subject areas. A variety of interdisciplinary and discipline-based minors are also offered for undergraduates.

The School of Law offers programs leading to the degrees of juris doctor (J.D.) and master of laws (LL.M.). J.D. students may earn certificates of specialization in high technology law, international law, and public interest and social justice law. LL.M. students may earn master of laws in intellectual property or U.S. law. A broad curriculum also includes business and commercial law, taxation, criminal law and trial advocacy, environmental law, estate planning, labor law, health law, legal writing and research, as well as opportunities for externships, clinical work, and professional skill development.

The Leavey School of Business offers graduate programs leading to the master of business administration (MBA) degree with coursework in accounting, economics, finance, management, marketing, and operations management and information systems (OMIS). The MBA can be done part-time on campus and online. The business school also offers graduate programs leading to the master of science in information systems (MSIS), business analytics, online in marketing, or finance & analytics. We also offer a 4+1 degree aimed at seniors for our MS programs in information systems, business analytics, and finance & analytics. In conjunction with the law school, the business school also offers joint degree programs leading to a J.D./MBA and J.D./MSIS.

The School of Engineering offers graduate programs leading to the master of science (M.S.) degree in applied mathematics; bioengineering; civil, environmental, and sustainable engineering; computer science and engineering; electrical engineering; engineering management; mechanical engineering; software engineering; and sustainable energy; and the engineer's degree in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering. The engineering school also offers the doctor of philosophy (Ph.D.) degree in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering.

The two departments in the School of Education and Counseling Psychology offer credential and graduate programs. The Department of Education focuses on preparing teachers and administrators for public and Catholic schools. It offers programs in teacher preparation leading to credentials (e.g., California preliminary multiple-subject and single-subject teaching credentials, and California Clear credential) and the master of arts in teaching (MAT) degree. Its programs in educational administration prepare public K--12 administrators for credentials (e.g., the Preliminary California Administrative Services credential and the California Clear Administrative Services credential), and Catholic school leaders through the certificate program in Catholic School Leadership. The department also offers an M.A. program in interdisciplinary education (with emphasis in curriculum and instruction; science, technology, environmental education, and mathematics \[STEEM\]; and educational administration). The departments of education and counseling psychology jointly offer the certificate program in Alternative and Correctional Education. The Department of Counseling Psychology offers two degree programs: M.A. in counseling psychology and M.A. in counseling. The M.A. in counseling psychology can lead to state licensure for marriage and family therapists and/or licensed professional clinical counselors. The department includes emphasis programs in health, correctional, and Latinx counseling.

The Jesuit School of Theology (JST) is one of only two Jesuit theological centers in the United States operated by the Society of Jesus, as the order of Catholic priests is known. It is one of only two Jesuit theological centers in the country that offer three ecclesiastical degrees certified by the Vatican Congregation for Catholic Education, and it also offers four advanced theological degrees certified by the Association of Theological Schools. In addition, JST offers a spiritual renewal program for clergy, religious, and lay people, and conducts an annual Instituto Hispano that offers a certificate program to advance Hispanic leadership in the pastoral life of the church.
