Campus Recreation
=================

Campus Recreation is committed to the Jesuit ideal of developing the whole person through a broad range of recreational, educational, and competitive opportunities that seek to enrich the lives of students, faculty, and staff. Informal recreation opportunities include drop-in use of the weight and cardiovascular equipment and gymnasium in the Pat Malley Fitness and Recreation Center, lap swimming in the Sullivan Aquatic Center, playing tennis at the Degheri Tennis Center, and throwing a football on Bellomy Field. Noncredit lifetime recreation fitness classes are also provided for an additional fee to all members. There are three options to take classes: a daily drop-in, a nine-class punch card, or an unlimited pass. During the first week of the quarter, all classes are free; beginning the second week, a pass is needed to attend the nine weeks of classes. There are over 20 classes available per week. Classes include yoga, kickboxing, cycling, and many more. Organized intramural sports leagues provide competitive opportunities in flag football, tennis, volleyball, badminton, basketball, soccer, table tennis, and softball against fellow current Santa Clara students, faculty, and staff. The 17 competitive club sports, open only to students, represent Santa Clara against teams from other colleges and universities. Current club sports include boxing, cycling, equestrian, men's ice hockey, men's and women's lacrosse, men's and women's rugby, men's and women's Ultimate Frisbee, men's and women's club volleyball, sailing, Shotokan karate, swimming, triathlon, and women's field hockey.
